---
title: ACP 2012
author: Sally
type: post
date: 2012-07-23T14:54:12+00:00
url: /blog/2012/07/23/acp-2012/
categories:
  - ACP
tags:
  - "2012"
  - Adobe

---
It&#8217;s with great pleasure that I&#8217;m able to announce that I have had my Adobe Community Professional status renewed for another term and will be an ACP for 2012-2013.

Since joining the program in January 2011 a lot has changed for me. I&#8217;ve moved from a more development-focussed role at work into one which is more sprategic, and I spend a lot of time doing internal planning as well as technical consultancy. I&#8217;m lucky enough to be able to work with some great partners at agency-level, Adobe being one of them, but it&#8217;s great for me to be able to be part of the community as an individual too.

Some recent innovations from Adobe, such as Shadow and <a href="http://brackets.io/" target="_blank">Brackets</a>, have jumped straight into the midst of the things I&#8217;m passionate about, and I&#8217;m excited about what&#8217;s going to happen over the next year.

The community itself has always been a big part of why it&#8217;s great to be involved with Adobe. One of the highlights of my 2011 was being able to go to MAX and meet people who had up until that point only been names on a screen, and of course it was great to be able to catch up with some old familiar faces. Being able to share ideas with inspirational people is one reason I love working in this industry, and I&#8217;m glad that I&#8217;ll be part of the Adobe community for another year.

Big thanks to Liz and all of the team for including me again!