---
title: Gravity
author: Sally
type: post
date: 2013-11-16T20:47:20+00:00
url: /blog/2013/11/16/gravity/
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - film

---
I&#8217;m a big fan of film and of going to the cinema. I&#8217;ll grab a plastic glass of red wine from the snack counter, wait for the lights to dim, settle in, and most importantly hope to see a great bit of storytelling.

I have just returned from seeing Gravity, a film which appears to be getting rave reviews everywhere. Ok, so in my world &#8216;everywhere&#8217; spans Empire, conversations, and my twitter feed, but general consensus is that it&#8217;s pretty amazing. Sadly, I was distinctly underwhelmed. The main culprit for this, for me, was the medium of delivery. Many of the rave reviews have focused on the &#8216;breathtaking&#8217; 3D, something which I was led to believe was an element which shouldn&#8217;t be missed. I&#8217;m not a fan of 3D as you&#8217;ll tell from this, but due to being late to the party I was left with the common problem of there not being any 2D showings, so I put my grumblings to one side and went anyway.

Yes, it&#8217;s pretty beautiful, but that&#8217;s not hard when you&#8217;ve got a gorgeous Earthscape as the backdrop to most of the film. Yes, it&#8217;s one of the better implementations of 3D, and the cinematography is very good. It&#8217;s entertaining enough, and is tense in parts, but it&#8217;s by no means a classic.

My problem with Gravity is that it seems to be a &#8216;3D and up&#8217; approach. You start with the 3D, you layer a plot on top, and you add touches which exist only to get the audience thinking &#8220;WOW, look at the 3D on that!&#8221;. The story simply isn&#8217;t very good. The acting isn&#8217;t that good. The script isn&#8217;t very good. I didn&#8217;t care about the characters. Flying pens? Yes, we&#8217;ve got plenty of those, and it&#8217;s that which people appear to be coming out and remembering. It felt like this film was conceived as a vessel for visual effects, and has little substance. I want to watch a film and a story, not a series of loosely coupled 3D set pieces.

The opening scene is kicked off with a playful George Clooney orbiting his colleagues, and he boosts himself in an arc towards us. It _is_ cool, until he jarringly exits and re-enters the frame. He then volunteers to help Sandra Bullock&#8217;s lead character, who promptly mis-handles a bolt, which flies towards the audience before a hand reaches out to grab it. This continues throughout, and the final scene (without spoiling anything) has a particular character gazing at debris, which in itself was a poignant enough moment. What it did not need was an overlay of two separate layers of additional detail to add some depth (hard to say what they were without ruining a plot point), both entirely unnecessary and very fake-looking. The scripting, and the shooting of the film were both clearly driven by &#8220;What can we put in to make this scene look cooler in 3D?&#8221;. This isn&#8217;t a problem that is exclusive to Gravity, and plagues many other films &#8216;made for 3D&#8217;.

Just as I don&#8217;t think you should ever take a CMS, and go &#8220;This technology is awesome. I want to build a website on top of it that doesn&#8217;t have anything to say, but will exist purely to show off how amazing the CMS is!&#8221;, I think the same applies to film. Websites should be about the why, the purpose, the story, and are just a vessel for meeting your goals. Film is the same for me &#8211; start with the story that you want to tell, for the reasons you want to tell it, and remember what&#8217;s important. If technology can enhance it, then fantastic, but don&#8217;t let it change fundamentals about your tale for the sake of it.

Technology is a brilliant spark for creativity, and can be used as a fantastic driver to engineer some wonderful ideas, but make sure that each of the ideas stand up in their own right and have a reason to exist rather than &#8220;the technology can do it&#8221;.

&nbsp;

Header image courtesy of <a title="cris.e on Flickr" href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/37291090@N03/3606552181/in/photolist-6uGwja-7WuUdk-dDBxG1-dDBvdy-dq2HXw-aeZ1D7-e1ugbE-e3NYQQ-atCDZv-atCEhP-atCDJi-dDByEy-dDw41i-dDw8YK-dDw6uD-dDBzsS-dDBw43-d5gHAf-dyVPmY-aeW8bp-aeCdcZ-aeF1FC-aeYVTS-aeYATQ-aeYZXL-aeWa6H-aeVKy4-aeYXtE-aeCcTg-aeF23u-aeWaTx-aeYzUh-aeVLxX-aeVLdH-aeVKWK-aeCbyT-aeEYYq-aeEZro-aeVM9z-aeYAyq-9byXZQ-9bvRAp-e2UrML-9byXSU-9bvRsv" target="_blank">cris.e on Flickr</a>.